<hr><td>Nama    :DENI KURNIAWAN</td>
<br>Nim :1821500072</br>
<td>prodi :Teknologi informasi A</td>
</hr>

<hr>
<br>-    Dynamical Systems </br>

>What is a dynamical system?
Examples of realistic dynamical systems 
•	Driven nonlinear pendulum Figure 2.1 shows a pendulum of mass M subject to a torque (the rotational equivalent of a force) and to a gravitational force G. You may think, for example, of a clock pendulum or a driven swing. The angle with the vertical in a positive sense is denoted by θ = θ(t), where t ∈ R holds for the time of the system, and we choose −π ≤ θ < π.
•	where for sake of simplicity we have set the mass M equal to one. Here we write ˙θ := dθ dt to denote the derivative of θ with respect to time, which is also sometimes called the angular velocity. In (2.1) θ is an example of a dynamical variable describing the state of the system, whereas ν, A, f are called control parameters. Here ν denotes the friction coefficient, A the amplitude of the periodic driving and f the frequency of the driving force. In contrast to dynamical variables, which depend on time, the values for the control parameters are chosen once for the system and then kept fixed, that is, they do not vary in time. Equation (2.1) presents an example of a driven (driving force), nonlinear (because of the sine function, sin x ≃ x − x 3/3!), dissipative (because of driving and damping) dynamical system. It is generally impossible to analytically solve complicated nonlinear equations of motion such as (2.1). However, they can still be integrated by numerical methods (such as RungeKutta integration schemes), which allows the production of simulations such as the ones that can be explored in “The Pendulum Lab”, a very nice interactive webpage [Elm98]. Playing around with varying the values of control parameters there, one finds the following four different types of characteristic behaviour: This systems has already been studied in many experiments, even by high school pupils!
2.	Bouncing ball
•	Another seemingly simple system displaying non-trivial behavior is the bouncing ball schematically depicted in Fig. 2.3: The figure shows an elastic ball of mass M falling under a gravitational force G by bouncing off a plate that vibrates with amplitude A and frequency f, thus allowing transfer of energy to and from the ball system. Additionally, the ball experiences a friction ν at the collision
3.	Particle billiards
•	look at the dynamics of a point particle with constant speed that collides elastically with the disk and the walls of the box. That is, we have specular reflection at the walls where in- and outgoing angles are the same, θ = θ ′ . 2 This system strongly reminds one of the idealistic case of a billiard table (without friction but with a circular obstacle) and is indeed referred to as a particle billiard in the literature. The particular example shown in Fig. 2.4 is known as the Sinai billiard.
•	The dynamical system is defined as follows: we have a series of semicircles periodically continued onto the line, which may overlap with each other. A point particle of mass M now scatters elastically with these semicircles under the influence of a gravitational force G. In the simulation we study the spreading in time of an ensemble of particles starting from the same point, but with varied velocity angles. The result is schematically depicted in Fig. 2.6: We see that there are two important mechanisms determining the dynamics of the particles, namely a stretching, which initially is due to the choice of initial velocities but later on also reflects the dispersing collisions at the scatterers, and a folding at the collisions, where the front of propagating particles experiences cusps. This sequence of “stretch” and “fold” generates very complicated structures in the position space of the system, which look like mixing paint.
4.	Definition of dynamical systems and the Poincar´e-Bendixson theorem
•	Definition 1 [Las94, Kat95] 1 A dynamical system consists of a phase (or state) space P and a family of transformations φt : P → P, where the time t may be either discrete, t ∈ Z, or continuous, t ∈ R. For arbitrary states x ∈ P the following must hold: 1. φ 0 (x) = x identity and 2. φ t (φ s (x)) = φ t+s (x) ∀t, s ∈ R additivity In other words, a dynamical system may be understood as a mathematical prescription for evolving the state of a system in time [Ott93, All97]. Property 2 above ensures that the transformations φ t form an Abelian group. As an exercise, you may wish to look up different definitions of dynamical systems on the internet.
5.	Time-discrete dynamical systems
•	Definition 6 Let P ⊂ R N , N ∈ N, xn ∈ P, n ∈ Z. Then M : P → P , xn+1 = M(xn ) (3.5) is called a time-discrete map. xn+1 = M(xn ) are sometimes called the equations of motion of the dynamical system. Choosing the initial condition x0 determines the outcome after n discrete time steps (hence determinism) in the following way: x1 = M(x0 ) = M1 (x0 ), x2 = M(x1 ) = M(M(x0 )) = M2 (x0 )(6= M(x0 )M(x0 )!). ⇒ Mm(x0 ) := M ◦ M ◦ · · ·M(x0 ) | {z } m-fold composed map . (3.6) In other words, for maps the situation is formally simpler than for differential equations: ∃ a unique (why?) solution to the equations of motion in form of xn = M(xn−1 ) = . . . = Mn (x0 ). This is the counterpart of the flow for time-continuous systems.
•	Example 3 Cobweb plot for the logistic map restricted to the parameter range 1 < r < 2 and for 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, see Fig. 3.6. x0 y=x M y x x1 x=1/2 y =M(x0 ) y=x1 x0 unstable fixed point x1 xs x2 y x stable fixed point Figure 3.6: left: first step of a cobweb plot for the logistic map with 1 < r < 2; right: magnification of the left hand side with the result for the iterated procedure. Constructing a cobweb plot for a map proceeds in five steps according to the following algorithm: 1. Choose an initial point x0 and draw a vertical line until it intersects the graph of the chosen map M(x). The point of intersection defines the value y = M(x0) of the map after the first iteration. 2. By using Eq. (3.5) we now identify y with the next position in the domain of the map at time step n = 1 which leads to x1 = y.

</hr>